DOCSP-51036: Transactions (#40)
mongodb/docs-django: source/interact-data/transactions.txt

.. _django-transactions:

=========================
Transactions and Sessions
=========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, ACID compliance, multi-document

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use {+django-odm+} to perform
**transactions**. Transactions allow you to run a series of operations
that change data only if the entire transaction is committed.
If any operation in the transaction does not succeed, {+django-odm+} stops the

> transaction and discards all data changes before they ever become

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction and discards all changes to the data before they ever become
```
Consider this for clarity

   in the Django and MongoDB Feature Compatibility guide.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``Movie`` model, which represents
the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`.
The ``Movie`` model class has the following definition:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/crud.py
   :start-after: start-models
   :end-before: end-models
   :language: python
   :copyable:

.. include:: /includes/use-sample-data.rst

   .. replacement:: model-classes

      ``Movie`` model includes

   .. replacement:: model-imports

      .. code-block:: python

         from <your application name>.models import Movie
         from django.utils import timezone
         from datetime import datetime

Start a Transaction
-------------------

To start a database transaction, define an atomic block of code
by adding the ``@transaction.atomic`` decorator above your function.
This decorator guarantees the atomicity of any database operations
within the function. If the function successfully completes, the 
changes are committed MongoDB.

The following example calls the ``create()`` method within a transaction,

> inserting a document into the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection if the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which inserts a document into the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection if the
```

transaction succeeds:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/transactions.py
   :start-after: start-transaction-decorator
   :end-before: end-transaction-decorator
   :language: python
   :copyable:

Alternatively, you can use the ``transaction.atomic()`` context manager
to create an atomic block. This example runs the same operation as the
preceding example but uses a context manager to start a transaction:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/transactions.py
   :start-after: start-transaction-manager
   :end-before: end-transaction-manager
   :language: python
   :copyable:

Run Callbacks After a Transaction
---------------------------------

If you want to perform certain actions only if a transaction successfully

> completes, you can use the ``transaction.on_commit()`` method. This method allows you to

Reviewer 2: `on_commit()` is a function, not a method.

register callbacks that run after a transaction is committed to the 
database. Pass a function, or any callable object, as an argument to
``on_commit()``.

The following example queries for movies that have a ``genre`` value of
``["Horror", "Comedy"]`` only after a related database transaction completes:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/transactions.py
   :start-after: start-callback
   :end-before: end-callback
   :language: python
   :copyable:

Handle Transaction Errors
-------------------------

To handle exceptions that occur during a transaction, add error handling
logic around your atomic code block. If you include error handing logic inside

> the atomic block, {+framework+} might ignore these errors, resulting in unexpected

Reviewer 2: I think the meaning of "{+framework+} might ignore these errors," is probably unclear.

Author: I added some more detail here

behavior.

> If a transaction does not succeed, your application does not revert any changes made

Reviewer 2: "your application" -> Django
